Overhaul AI Gateway docs for new architecture (#2196)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: ai-gateway/concepts/bring-your-own-keys.mdx

description: Use your own provider API keys with the AI Gateway.
---

> Bring your own key when you want upstream billing on your provider account, need built-in providers beyond OpenAI and Anthropic, or run [custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers).

Reviewer: the grammar is kind of confusing here but I think this helps

```suggestion
Bring your own key when you want upstream billing on your provider account, need built-in providers beyond OpenAI and Anthropic, or to run [custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers).
```

Reviewer: might be more legible as a lil list

```suggestion
Bringing your own keys is necessary when:

- you want upstream billing on your provider account
- you need built-in providers beyond OpenAI and Anthropic
- you're running [custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers)
```

Your application authenticates with an [access key](/ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys). Store provider keys in [app.ngrok.ai](https://app.ngrok.ai) and attach them through an [access key configuration](/ai-gateway/guides/access-key-configurations).

## Built-in providers

| | OpenAI & Anthropic | Other built-in providers |
|---|---|---|
| Provider account needed | Optional | Yes |
| Default credentials | ngrok.ai inference (with credits) | Provider key required in configuration |
| What credits pay for | Processing fee; plus model cost with ngrok.ai inference | Processing fee only |

For OpenAI and Anthropic, create a configuration routing rule with **Bring your own API key** instead of **ngrok** when you want to use your provider account.

## Custom providers

> Custom providers are endpoints you define—Ollama, vLLM, or any OpenAI- or Anthropic-compatible API. See [Create a custom provider](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers#create-a-custom-provider).

Reviewer: the nested dashes of various flavors get a little confusing here

```suggestion
Custom providers are endpoints you define, such as Ollama, vLLM, or any OpenAI- or Anthropic-compatible API. See [Create a custom provider](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers#create-a-custom-provider).
```

Custom providers require provider keys in the configuration when the upstream needs authentication. See [Custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers).

## Setup flow

1. [Add provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys#add-a-provider-key)
2. Create an [access key configuration](/ai-gateway/guides/access-key-configurations) with routing rules and scope
3. Assign the configuration to an [access key](/ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys)

> 4. Send requests with the access key only

Reviewer: nit: these list items can have periods since they're complete sentences

```suggestion
1. [Add provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys#add-a-provider-key).
2. Create an [access key configuration](/ai-gateway/guides/access-key-configurations) with routing rules and scope.
3. Assign the configuration to an [access key](/ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys).
4. Send requests with the access key only.
```
